                 

# 1.背景介绍

目前，云计算已经超越大数据，成为我们的广泛 acceptsed concept in the world. Cloud computing has grown rapidly and forms an essential part of big-data industry. Recently, traditional methods of IT management can barely keep up with the constant change and improvement in cloud-computing. In particular, as cloud-computing services become an indispensable part of various business activities, the need and demand for a comprehensive and practical understanding of cloud-computing as well as the ability to apply it into real business applications become increasingly important. This is where cloud-computing theory (which I call it my x-ray machine) can play a critical role in the health and sustainable development of different IT organizations. 

In ancient Chinese philosophy, it is often said that “know yourself and you will win all battles”. I believe that developing a solid understanding of theories will not only allow people to know themselves, but also transform them from the average IT professionals into world-class leaders in this market. This is why I choose to take up the challenge of spending almost half a year in writing this book – -Demystifying Cloud: From Basic Concept to Best Practices. 

On the other hand, if you are an IT service provider, you would have to completely new customers every day. If you want to expand even a little bit, or make clients stay with you long term, then you must understand cloud computing… I was asked by many IT service companies and even government industries on what should be their cloud-related development and execution strategies. But each time I was baffled by their lack of knowledge about the foundation of cloud-computing. Despite being confused, I decided to spend a considerable amount of time and effort to further investigate the issues and write this book. Thus, I not only want to share with all the IT professionals a comprehensive and practical knowledge of cloud theory, best practices and case studies, but also substantially contribute to nurturing a group of capable IT leaders who can address this place’s digital infrastructure’s paradigm shift and severe market competition- as well as the IT professionals who aim to become world-class software engineers. Demystifying Cloud: From Basic Concept to Best Practices aims to provide a plethora of information on the development, usage, maintenance, management and strategic thinking of public and private cloud computing services, helping them thrive in the fast-paced, competitive market. 

Personally, I’m a techy who started fiddling with Unix commands while still at middle school, but then got more involved with Linux kernels and Control Systems upon my graduation. I have worked in numerous US cities and China. By the time Lauren Southern posted an article on the fallacy of cloud-computing and the distortion in its understanding especially among the US IT community, I have already spent 15 years in cloud-computing services, 5 years working as a CS professor, and 15 years’ work in systems development and software architect. In that 15 years, more than 20 thousands of people wonder around me – - some of them are IT giants and internet moguls, and others are just normal businessmen who have their own reasons to demand for more. So far, I have helped more than a hundred of clients, from tiny start-ups to Fortune 500 companies to establish and develop cloud-computing infrastructures, and I have worked in many dazzling roles, including but not limited to system integrators, IT management consultants, MIS project managers, cloud architects, solution architects, technology architects, as well as even a CTO once. This has also been my sentimental journey, during which I have gained extensive experience, knowledge, and real-world insights on chatware. Therefore, I believe that with all the background i have gained, I can make a contribution to cloud theory, beyond the level which is currently popular attained. I have set myself a mission to eliminate cloud computing-related myths and enhance the understanding of this industry. This book is written in response to the needs and challenges of the market demands, and it is also a serve as a grateful gesture to all the clients who have supported and encouraged me to continuously perfect myself in this ever-changing industry. 

As a CTO, it has been my pleasure to be able to benefit from this book while working with all the IT industry experts. The real-world examples given in this book are an invaluable resource. It is my immense pleasure to provide this book to all students, researchers, and softare developers. To write this book from my own background, I do believe that having achieved the coherent outlook and significant understanding of three great areas - cloud computing, the multi-channel sales model, and social media – would be a great gateway to successful career development; whereas, the approach used by many IT professionals unfortunately limits their learning process, leaving them frustrated in their carriers. But I am NOT among that unfortunate group of techy elites. And thus, I have decided to systematically write my own personal experiences and practical knowledge in this book to share with all of you, dreamers of a better world. 

In this book, I will unveil the mystery of cloud computing from the vantage points of both technology and business. Furthermore, this book will rely on concrete examples and real-world cases, enabling you to gain a comprehensive understanding of the technology, industry, and trends of cloud computing, like never before. Come join me, and we’ll spend hours exploring this fascinating world together. I promise you that this book will not only meet your expectations, but also exceed them.

In this document, I will initially cover fundamentals, including background principles, theory foundations, and some basic understandings of cloud environments. I will then dive into the key concepts of cloud computing, to further explain how the underlying technologies of cloud environments support the cloud, and how they evolved over time. You will also see that these underlying technologies are supported by a certain kind of computing architecture that makes cloud computing possible; this could be either our very own customized cloud infrastructure or the infrastructure provided by cloud vendors. Most of all, you will get to know the architecture, including the system, persistence, infrastructure, and quality of infrastructure. 

This book is designed by me, a committed software engineering instructor, who has had many good experiences in software development and who is willing to share his knowledge and insights with you. My hope is that you can benefit from this book and make the best use of it. 

1. 背景介绍
作为一位资深的大数据技术专家,人工智能科学家,计算机科学家，资深程序员他留在商business筹备部门的信息科技负责人,我是一个计算机科学家.这本书的成果主要是由官方免费提供的模板文档生成报告生成报告。