
作者：禅与计算机程序设计艺术                    

# 1.简介
         
　　Constraint validation is an important part of validating user input in web applications and forms on the client side. In this post, we will be writing about how to create our own custom constraint validators using Java EE technologies such as CDI and Bean Validation API. We'll also look at some practical examples that can be done with these constraints like verifying passwords or email addresses format. Let's get started!
          
         　　In simple words, creating a custom constraint validator involves implementing the following:
          
          - A new annotation for defining the constraint
          - The implementation of the constraint validator interface for checking if the input satisfies the given criteria
          - Registering the custom constraint validator in the bean container so it becomes available for use
          
          By the end of this article, you should have a good understanding of what custom constraint validators are and how they work under the hood. You'll also gain insight into how to build your own custom constraint validators using standard tools provided by Java EE technology stack.
          
         # 2. Basic Concepts and Terminology
         ## 2.1 Constraints
         A constraint specifies certain rules and conditions which must be satisfied by an instance of a class during runtime. For example, a constraint could be "a password should contain at least one uppercase letter," meaning any password that does not satisfy this condition would fail to validate.

         　　Constraints come in various flavors depending upon their nature, ranging from simple data type constraints like length checks, to complex object graph based integrity constraints.

         ## 2.2 Constraint Validator Framework (CVLF)
         The JSR-349 defines the specification of the Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE) constraint validation framework, providing APIs for specifying and enforcing constraints on JavaBean properties. It includes several key components, including:

        * **Constraint Annotations:** These annotations define metadata for describing the constraints applied to JavaBean properties.
        * **Validator Implementation Interface:** This interface provides methods for validating instances against specific constraints. Validators must implement the `isValid()` method which returns either true or false indicating whether the input value satisfies the specified constraint. Additionally, each validator may provide additional functionality, such as message interpolation, localization, and group support.
        * **Validation Configuration File:** The configuration file provides information about the constraint validators to be used for a given application deployment. 
        * **Validator Factory**: The factory creates Validator objects according to the information provided in the validation configuration file and applies them to the appropriate targets.

         　　The main goal of the CVLF is to simplify development of enterprise-level constraint-based validation applications by providing a common mechanism for declaring, configuring, and executing validation checks. It enables developers to focus more time on developing business logic instead of reinventing the wheel when it comes to data validation.

         ## 2.3 Bean Validation API
         The Bean Validation API (BVAPI) is part of the Java SE platform starting from Java 6 and has been introduced as part of JSR-349 in Java EE 7. BVAPI supports basic level of validation checks, such as nullness and numerical range constraints, but advanced features like cross-field validation, grouping validations, etc., are not yet supported.

         　　While BVAPI doesn't offer complete control over all aspects of constraint validation, it simplifies most common scenarios by allowing developers to declare constraints directly within the entity classes themselves using annotations. It makes it easier to apply validation without having to write separate validation code and reduce boilerplate code requirements.

          


         # 3. Core Algorithm and Operations
         ## 3.1 Definition of a Custom Constraint Validator

         Here's the general outline of steps required to develop a custom constraint validator:

         1. Create a new annotation for defining the constraint
         2. Implement the constraint validator interface for checking if the input satisfies the given criteria
         3. Register the custom constraint validator in the bean container so it becomes available for use

         　　Let's go through each step in detail.

          
         ### Step 1: Define a New Annotation

         Firstly, let's create a new annotation `@MyCustomConstraint` to represent our custom constraint. Below is the sample code snippet: 

         ```java
            @Documented
            @Retention(RUNTIME)
            @Target({METHOD, FIELD, ANNOTATION_TYPE})
            public @interface MyCustomConstraint {
                String message() default "{custom.constraint}";

                Class<?>[] groups() default {};

                Class<? extends Payload>[] payload() default {};
            }
         ```

         This annotation will take three optional attributes: `message`, `groups`, and `payload`. When applied to a property or parameter, the presence of this annotation indicates that the associated field/method argument needs to satisfy the defined constraint. 

         > Note: 
         > 
         > 1. If no message is specified, then the default error message will be used which is `{javax.validation.constraints.NotNull.message}`.
         > 2. Groups and payload fields are used for grouping and passing additional contextual information related to violations.
         > 


         ### Step 2: Implement the Constraint Validator Interface

         Next, we need to implement the `ConstraintValidator<T, V>` interface where T represents the annotated element and V is the actual type of the property being validated. In our case, we want to annotate a string field whose values we want to check against a regular expression pattern. Therefore, we need to implement a `String` version of this interface as follows:  

         ```java
             public class PasswordPatternValidator implements ConstraintValidator<MyCustomConstraint, String> {
                 private Pattern pattern;

                 public void initialize(MyCustomConstraint constraintAnnotation) {
                     // Initialize the regex pattern here
                     pattern = Pattern.compile(".*[A-Z].*");
                 }

                 public boolean isValid(String value, ConstraintValidatorContext context) {
                     return value!= null && pattern.matcher(value).matches();
                 }
             }
         ```

         In this implementation, we first override the `initialize()` method where we parse the regular expression pattern from the annotation and store it in a local variable `pattern`. Then we implement the `isValid()` method which takes two parameters - the actual value being validated (`value`) and a `ConstraintValidatorContext` object which allows us to access the metadata related to the current validation process. 

         Our implementation simply compares the value against the compiled regex pattern and returns true if it matches and false otherwise. If the value is null, then we consider it valid because null is a valid input in some cases.

         
         ### Step 3: Register the Custom Constraint Validator in the Bean Container

         Finally, once we've implemented and tested the custom constraint validator, we need to register it in the Java EE container. For example, we might do this by annotating a CDI component and adding it to the bean archive along with other necessary dependencies. Here's an example: 

         ```xml
             <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
             <beans xmlns="http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee"
                    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                    xsi:schemaLocation="http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee/beans_1_1.xsd">

                 <bean id="passwordPatternValidator"
                       class="com.example.PasswordPatternValidator"/>

             </beans>
         ```

         In this example, we're registering our custom constraint validator as a named CDI component with the ID `"passwordPatternValidator"`. Whenever there is a dependency injection request for a member field or constructor parameter annotated with `@MyCustomConstraint`, the corresponding validator instance will be injected automatically.