
作者：禅与计算机程序设计艺术                    

# 1.简介
  

>Deep learning (DL) techniques have become increasingly popular in the medical image analysis domain due to their potential for improving accuracy and reducing costs compared to traditional manual methods. However, DL is still a relatively new field that has not yet been thoroughly explored or widely used by researchers and developers outside the medical imaging industry. In this survey paper, we aim to provide a comprehensive review of recent advances made in the area of DL applied to medical images, including popular deep neural networks architectures such as convolutional neural networks (CNNs), recurrent neural networks (RNNs), and autoencoders, as well as attention mechanisms and transformer models. We will also discuss some promising areas for future exploration, such as using generative adversarial networks (GANs) for unsupervised image synthesis, and transfer learning from pre-trained models to different tasks related to breast cancer detection and diagnosis. Additionally, we will present recent research progress on hybrid learning approaches combining both supervised and unsupervised components, which may be useful in handling large amounts of heterogeneous data with limited annotated samples. Finally, we will highlight several open challenges and pitfalls facing the development of these technologies within the medical imaging domain. Overall, our objective is to raise awareness among the scientific community about the latest advancements and opportunities available for leveraging DL techniques in medical image analysis, and to foster collaborations between medical scientists, engineers, and developers to develop robust and effective tools for analyzing clinical data.

Introduction:Deep learning techniques have recently gained popularity in medical image analysis because they are capable of accurately identifying disease markers without relying on human intervention, enabling better decision-making and treatment outcomes. Despite this advantage, there is still much work needed to fully understand how DL algorithms function, what kind of datasets they need, and how they should be applied to various problems in medical image analysis. This survey paper seeks to provide a comprehensive overview of current state-of-the-art DL applications to medical images, covering five key categories of techniques, including CNNs, RNNs, autoencoders, attention mechanisms, and transformers, as well as topics such as GANs and transfer learning. Moreover, hybrid learning strategies using both supervised and unsupervised components are discussed, and practical issues surrounding distributed computing and GPU usage during training are addressed. Finally, surveys of current trends in medical image analysis are provided, with emphasis placed on the importance of advanced visual features and machine learning models, particularly for early detection of cancerous tissue.

This article presents a brief introduction to deep learning and its use in medical image analysis. It then outlines a summary of four main categories of techniques commonly used in medical image analysis, namely Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs), Autoencoders, and Attention Mechanisms. Each technique is reviewed in detail, explaining its structure, architecture, benefits, weaknesses, and potential applications in medical image analysis. Next, the reader is presented with details on Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), Transfer Learning, Hybrid Learning Strategies, and Challenges Faced During Development. The final section provides suggestions for further reading and references.

# 2.Background and Key Concepts
## Introduction
Medical Image Analysis is the process of extracting valuable information from medical scans obtained through CT scan, MRI, PET, etc. These scans contain relevant information like organ structures, tumors, lesions, pathologies, and many other things. 

However, conventional Computer Vision (CV) algorithms can only extract basic shape and texture features from medical images. To achieve high level understanding of the scanned objects, we need specialized CV algorithms specifically designed to identify specific patterns and boundaries in medical images, known as Region Of Interest (ROI). Extracted ROI's then feed into Machine Learning algorithms to classify them based on predefined categories such as abnormalities, normality, melanoma, etc. Once classified, appropriate treatment plan can be developed. Therefore, Medical Image Analysis requires a combination of CV Algorithms and ML Algorithms to obtain accurate results. 

Deep Learning (DL) is a subset of Machine Learning (ML) where artificial neural network (ANN) architectures mimic the organization and functionality of the human brain’s central nervous system (CNS). DL algorithms can learn complex features by processing input data in multiple layers, and it can generalize to new data inputs even when trained on small sets of labeled data. By capturing nonlinear relationships and interactions between features in each layer, DL enables us to solve complex tasks such as object recognition, face detection, speech recognition, and text classification. 

DL has taken over the medical image analysis industry since it offers significant improvements over conventional computer vision algorithms while being highly scalable, allowing for large volumes of data to be processed. Researchers have proposed numerous DL algorithms, architectures, and techniques for Medical Image Analysis, ranging from CNNs, RNNs, Transformers, and AutoEncoders, to Self-Attention Mechanisms. There are currently two major streams of research dedicated towards applying DL algorithms to medical image analysis, i.e., Supervised and Unsupervised learning techniques. 

In **Supervised learning** techniques, the algorithm is trained on a dataset consisting of labeled examples of the correct output for every example in the input dataset. DL algorithms are trained to minimize the difference between the predicted output and actual output, leading to high accuracy in predicting labels on new test cases. These algorithms perform well on structured datasets with standardized formats like radiology reports or x-ray images, but they often struggle to handle real world scenarios involving heterogeneous data with varying degrees of noise and missing values. For instance, in breast cancer detection, the presence of false positive predictions leads to unnecessary mortality, whereas detecting true positives correctly would greatly improve treatment efficacy. Thus, supervised learning is essential in medical image analysis to ensure precise detection of diseases.

In contrast, in **Unsupervised learning**, no labeled examples are provided to train the algorithm directly. Instead, the algorithm identifies underlying patterns or structures in the data without any prior knowledge of the expected outputs. An example of this is clustering, which groups similar instances together based on their similarity in feature space. Unsupervised learning is especially helpful in medical image analysis to segment regions of interest, characterize population distribution, and discover spatial correlations across patients' brains. It is important to note that supervision plays an essential role in guiding the learning process; if there is insufficient amount of labeled data, unsupervised learning may lead to suboptimal results. Nonetheless, automated segmentation technology, such as MRI machine learning software, leverages unsupervised learning algorithms to automate segmentation procedures and reduce errors caused by low quality scans.

Another important aspect of medical image analysis is *data augmentation*. Data augmentation involves generating additional copies of existing data points to increase the size of the dataset and avoid overfitting. Augmentation techniques involve rotating, scaling, shifting, and flipping original images, adding noise to the images, or introducing random variations in illumination conditions to simulate different environments in the scanner. Overfitting refers to situations where the model starts to memorize the training set instead of generalizing well to new data inputs. Overfitting can occur if we do not regularize the model enough to prevent weights from getting too large, resulting in poor performance on test data. Data augmentation helps prevent overfitting by providing more varied training examples. 

To summarize, DL algorithms offer exceptional capabilities for medical image analysis that allow researchers to build powerful and accurate models that can analyze vast amounts of diverse data quickly. However, before deploying DL algorithms in the medical sector, a good understanding of the fundamentals of biomedical imaging, machine learning, and programming skills is necessary to properly implement the techniques.

## Key Terms & Concepts
* Feature Extraction: This step involves finding relevant features or characteristics in the medical images, which are later fed into the ML algorithms to classify the images. Different DL models employ different types of features to capture certain aspects of the image. Some common features include intensity, gradient magnitudes, local binary patterns, Histograms of oriented gradients (HOG), and color histograms. 
* Preprocessing: Preprocessing steps include resampling, normalization, cropping, histogram equalization, filtering, and denoising of the raw image data. Various preprocessing techniques enhance the quality of the extracted features and help in making the classifier invariant to changes in lighting condition, background, and shadows.
* Training Set: The dataset used to train the DL model consists of a collection of medical images along with corresponding labels indicating the category of the image. The training set is split into two parts, one part for training and another part for validation. The training set is used to optimize the parameters of the model during training, and the validation set is used to monitor the model’s performance during training. If the model performs well on the validation set, it is considered to be successful and ready for deployment.
* Validation Set: The validation set is typically reserved for monitoring the model’s performance during training. It contains a portion of the training data, whose purpose is to estimate the model’s ability to generalize to new data inputs. When the model’s accuracy decreases significantly after training, the hyperparameters must be adjusted or the architecture of the model might need to be modified accordingly.
* Testing Set: After the completion of training, the trained model is evaluated on a separate testing set containing a sample of unseen data. This set allows the researcher to evaluate the performance of the model on unforeseeable cases and report back insights that could potentially impact patient care. Testing is crucial in ensuring that the model achieves the desired accuracy levels on previously unseen data.
* Hyperparameters: Parameters of the model that need to be optimized during training such as learning rate, batch size, number of layers, activation functions, and optimization algorithms. Hyperparameter tuning is an essential component of training DL models and it ensures that the best possible solution is achieved in terms of accuracy.
* Architecture: A sequence of computational units arranged in layers is called an architecture. There are mainly three types of architectures: Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs), and Autoencoders. They differ in terms of their design, topology, and learned representations. Common topologies include AlexNet, VGG, ResNet, and Inception.
* Activation Function: The non-linear function applied at the end of each layer to introduce non-linearity in the model and make it able to learn complex relationships between features. Common activation functions include sigmoid, relu, softmax, and tanh.
* Loss Function: A measure of the error between the predicted value and the actual label. The loss function is used to calculate the cost of making incorrect predictions and adjust the model’s parameters to minimize the loss during training. Popular loss functions include mean squared error, cross entropy, and KL Divergence.
* Optimization Algorithm: Methods for updating the model’s parameters based on the calculated gradients and constraints. Popular optimization algorithms include stochastic gradient descent (SGD), Adam, AdaGrad, and Adadelta.
* Batch Size: Number of samples used to update the model’s parameters per iteration. Batch sizes vary depending on the hardware resources and memory availability. Small batch sizes require less computation time but can suffer from slow convergence and instability, whereas larger batches require more computation time but may converge faster.
* Epochs: One epoch represents the entire training dataset passed once through the model. The number of epochs determines the number of times the entire dataset is iterated. Early stopping can be implemented to stop training when the model stops improving.

# 3.Core Technical Concepts and Operations
The following sections describe core concepts, operations, and math formulas associated with various deep learning techniques for medical image analysis. Some of the important papers are cited throughout the document for reference purposes.


## Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)
A convolutional neural network (CNN) is a type of deep neural network that uses convolution filters to extract features from the input data. CNNs are inspired by the visual cortex of the human brain, which processes thousands of images in parallel, creating patterns that are abstracted from individual pixels. CNNs consist of several layers of filters that apply transformations to the input data, followed by pooling layers that aggregate nearby features into larger features. The last few layers of the CNN map the aggregated features to a set of output classes. CNNs were originally introduced to tackle the problem of image classification, but they have since been extended to handle many other tasks, such as object localization, semantic segmentation, and face recognition.



### Structure of a CNN Layer
Each layer of a CNN typically includes a set of filters that perform a particular transformation on the input data. The filters slide over the input data and convolve with the patches of adjacent pixels, producing feature maps. Common filter shapes include linear rectangular filters, circular elliptical filters, and triangular filters. Filters are usually initialized randomly, and the initial weights are updated during training via backpropagation. Filter sizes range from 3x3 to 9x9, although smaller filters can produce redundant features. Pooling layers downsample the feature maps by aggregating the most significant features in the region, which reduces the dimensionality of the feature maps and speeds up the subsequent layers. Dropout layers randomly remove a fraction of neurons during training, preventing coadaptation of neurons and enhancing generalization capability.

### Building Blocks of CNN
Building blocks of CNN include Convolutional Layers, Activation Functions, Pooling Layers, Fully Connected Layers, and Regularization Layers.

#### Convolutional Layers
Convolutional layers take in an input tensor of shape `(batch_size, num_channels, height, width)` and apply a series of convolution filters to generate an output tensor of shape `(batch_size, num_filters, height', width')`, where `num_filters` is the number of filters in the convolution layer. Typically, each filter covers a small receptive field around a particular position in the input tensor. The stride parameter controls the spacing between the positions of the filters relative to the input tensor. Common strides include 1 (no overlap), 2 (subpixel sampling), and 3.

When performing a forward pass through a convolutional layer, each element of the output tensor is computed as the dot product between the corresponding filter and a locally aggregated region of the input tensor. Specifically, given a filter bank `F` of shape `(filter_height, filter_width, in_channels, out_channels)`, the corresponding slice `f_{k}` of `F` corresponds to the kth filter, and the input tensor `X` has shape `(batch_size, in_channels, height, width)`. Then the output tensor `Y` is computed as follows:

```python
for b in range(batch_size):
    for i in range(height'):
        for j in range(width'):
            Y[:, :, i, j] = sum([conv(X[b], f[i, j]) for f in F]) + bias(out_channels)
```

where `bias()` adds a constant offset term to each channel of the output tensor. `conv(X[b], f[i, j])` computes the dot product between a single patch `X[b, :, i:i+filter_height, j:j+filter_width]` and a single filter `f`.

One way to interpret a convolutional layer is as a series of stacked translation and rotation invariant filters. The goal is to learn spatially localized features that can be combined to recognize complex visual patterns. Other interpretable properties of CNNs include their ability to exploit contextual information, which can be captured through shared weights, and their ability to generalize well to irrelevant features.

#### Activation Functions
Activation functions activate the output of a layer by applying a non-linear transformation to the weighted sum of inputs. Common activation functions include ReLU (Rectified Linear Unit), Sigmoid, SoftMax, and Tanh. ReLU is often used as the activation function for all hidden layers except the output layer, which uses a different activation function like SoftMax or Sigmoid for multi-class classification. Sigmoid squashes the output of a layer to a probability distribution over a binary classification task, and SoftMax converts the output vector into a probability distribution over k mutually exclusive classes.

#### Pooling Layers
Pooling layers downsample the input tensor by aggregating the maximum or average value of the elements inside each pool window. Pooling layers are used to control overfitting and promote invariance to small distortions in the input data. Pooling windows are typically defined as adjacent grid cells that share similar features. Pooling layers generally reduce the dimensionality of the input tensors, which makes them easier to train and prevents the network from becoming too complex.

#### Fully Connected Layers
Fully connected layers are used to convert the output of the previous layers into a set of logits or probabilities for the target variable. The most common practice is to flatten the output of the previous layers and concatenate it with the output of one or more intermediate layers. This step combines the higher level features produced by the convolutional layers with lower level features produced by the fully connected layers.

#### Regularization Layers
Regularization layers are used to prevent overfitting and improve generalization performance. The first is dropout, which randomly drops out a fraction of neurons during training. The second is L2 regularization, which adds a penalty term to the loss function that penalizes large weight values. This encourages sparsity in the model and helps prevent overfitting.

Overall, CNNs are a powerful tool for medical image analysis because they can capture complex spatial dependencies in medical images that can be utilized for discriminative image classification tasks.


## Recurrent Neural Network (RNN)
Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) are a family of neural networks that are specialized for sequential data, such as natural language processing (NLP) or audio signal processing. RNNs utilize a loop to iterate through the input sequences, accumulating internal state variables that represent long-term dependencies between consecutive events in the sequence. They can encode long-range dependencies in the input sequence to preserve information and enable generation of novel outputs.


An RNN cell takes in a vector of inputs `x_t` and the previous state `h_(t-1)` and produces a new state `h_t`. At each timestep `t`, the input is mapped to a hidden representation `h_t = f(W_xh * x_t + W_hh * h_(t-1) + b)` using a linear transformation, where `*` indicates pointwise multiplication and `f()` applies an activation function. Common activations functions include sigmoid, tanh, and relu. While RNNs can capture short-range dependencies between sequential events, they can sometimes be unable to model longer-range dependencies because the hidden states depend on past events indirectly through the chain of updates.

Common variants of RNNs include Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) and Gated Recurrent Units (GRU). LSTM incorporates an “internal” memory gate that controls whether or not to remember or forget past information, which can address vanishing gradients in very deep networks. GRUs eliminate the explicit memory gate and rely solely on multiplicative interactions between inputs and state vectors. Both variants maintain static and dynamic representations of the input sequence by encoding long-term dependencies implicitly rather than explicitly.

### Types of RNNs
There are three main types of RNNs: Vanilla RNNs, Bidirectional RNNs, and Sequence-to-Sequence RNNs. Vanilla RNNs compute the output at each timestep independently, without considering the history of previous inputs. Bidirectional RNNs combine outputs from a forward pass and backward pass through the input sequence to capture temporal dependencies across the sequence. Sequence-to-sequence RNNs connect pairs of encoder and decoder RNNs, enabling them to decode the generated output based on the sequence of inputs.

### Applications of RNNs
RNNs have been successfully applied to numerous NLP tasks such as language modeling, sentiment analysis, and named entity recognition. RNNs are also used in speech recognition and music composition systems, where they can capture long-range dependencies between successive notes in an audio clip. Another application of RNNs is video processing, where the motion of objects and actions is modeled using sequences of frames.

Overall, RNNs have shown promise for modeling sequential data, but they are limited in their capacity to capture long-range dependencies. Future directions include the use of Graph Neural Networks (GNNs), which are graph neural networks that operate on graphs representing the relationships between nodes, edges, and attributes in the input data.

## Autoencoder
Autoencoders are a type of neural network that learn efficient representations of the input data by compressing the information and reconstructing it. They can be thought of as building a bottleneck in a compression pipeline, where the compressed representation effectively serves as a summarization of the input data. Autoencoders consist of an encoder and a decoder stage, where the encoder transforms the input data into a compressed representation and the decoder generates the original data from the compressed representation. The goal of the autoencoder is to learn a compact representation of the input data that captures its essence and maintains the original semantics while minimizing the reconstruction error.

Autoencoders can be applied to many tasks in medical image analysis, including denoising, anomaly detection, and dimensionality reduction. Examples of autoencoders include denoising autoencoders (DAE), variational autoencoders (VAE), and contractive autoencoders (CAE). DAEs reconstruct the input data by replacing the corrupted or missing bits with a mean value, while VAEs impose a latent space distribution and add a noise term to the compressed representation, and CAEs enforce a sparse coding constraint to learn the most important features in the input data while ignoring irrelevant ones.

### Structures of Autoencoders
The encoder and decoder stages of an autoencoder typically consist of alternating dense and convolutional layers. The former translate the input data into a fixed-length code vector, while the latter invert the effect of the encoder by converting the encoded vector back into an image or a set of features. Typical architectures include DenseNet, U-Net, and Wavelet Autoencoder.


DenseNet, a modification of the AlexNet architecture, replaces the fully connected layers with dilated convolutions, which create skip connections between the layers, enabling greater flexibility in mapping the input data. U-Net, a branching model, splits the input data into overlapping tiles and recursively applies convolutions and max-poolings until the smallest tile is reached, enabling the decoder to gradually generate the complete input data. Wavelet Autoencoder, also referred to as Wavelet-based denoiser, applies wavelet transform to the input data, which creates periodic and scale-dependent components, and then concatenates the transformed components as the final representation of the input.

### Connectionist Temporal Classification (CTC)
Connectionist Temporal Classification (CTC) is a loss function used in automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems to align the recognized sequences of phonemes with the reference sequences. It measures the differences between the logit distributions predicted by the ASR model and the ideal alignment between phones in the reference transcript. Traditional phoneme alignment methods, such as Baum-Welch Bayesian inference, consider the joint probability of all possible paths between the phones in the hypothesis and reference transcripts, leading to slower convergence and higher computational complexity. On the other hand, CTC avoids exact decoding and constructs an approximation by treating the logit distributions as conditional probabilities over the emitted phones, given the history of the phone sequence. The approach works well when the input data and the reference transcript are clean and align exactly.

The overall CTC algorithm includes four steps:

1. Definition of the lattice: Starting from the beginning of the input sequence, the CTC algorithm defines a search lattice of candidate alignments between the reference and the estimated phones. Each node in the lattice represents an alignment, and the edge length indicates the likelihood of the transition between the current phone and the next phone.
2. Joint prefix probabilities: The CTC algorithm calculates the probability of observing the prefixes of the reference transcript under the prediction made so far. This step calculates the likelihood of matching all prefixes of the reference transcript with the characters assigned to the respective positions in the predicted phones.
3. State pruning: The CTC algorithm eliminates unlikely transitions from the search lattice according to the prefix probabilities. This reduces the search space and accelerates the calculation of the joint probability of the remaining paths.
4. Path selection: Using the joint prefix probabilities and the reduced search space, the CTC algorithm selects the most probable path through the lattice as the final result.
