
作者：禅与计算机程序设计艺术                    

# 1.简介
  

Logistic regression is one of the most popular machine learning algorithms used for classification problems. It is widely used in various applications such as predicting whether a customer will purchase or not based on their past behavior and attributes, predicting if an email is spam or not, etc. In this article we will learn how to implement logistic regression using R programming language with practical examples and explanations. We will also explore some common pitfalls while implementing logistic regression along with its advantages and disadvantages.

We assume that you are familiar with basic statistical concepts like hypothesis testing, probability distributions, confidence intervals, etc., but have zero experience in implementing these models from scratch. If you need any refresher please refer to other articles or books. This article assumes no prior knowledge about linear regression or R programming language. 

By the end of this article you should be able to understand what logistic regression is, its working principles, limitations and why it is still commonly used today. You will also know how to use R programming language to implement logistic regression algorithm and its key functions. Finally, you will gain insights into the importance of feature scaling and regularization techniques when dealing with high-dimensional data sets.

In conclusion, by reading through this article, you can get a clear understanding of logistic regression, its implementation in R programming language, limitations and potential issues associated with it. Additionally, you will find out different ways to overcome them and identify which method works best for your specific problem statement. Moreover, you will be able to apply these methods effectively in solving real-world classification problems. Good luck!


## 2.Logistic Regression Definition
### What Is Logistic Regression? 
Logistic regression is a type of supervised learning algorithm that is used for binary classification tasks where the outcome variable has two possible values (0/1, true/false, yes/no, etc.). The main idea behind logistic regression is to model the relationship between independent variables and the dependent variable using a sigmoid function. The purpose of the sigmoid function is to map the predicted probabilities to meaningful class labels. Specifically, the sigmoid function squashes the output value between 0 and 1, so that probabilities range between 0% and 100%. A good fit typically means that the observed data points closely follow the curve generated by our model. 

The general equation of logistic regression is given by:
<center>y_i = β_0 + β_1x_{i1} +... + β_px_{ip}</center>
where y_i is the dependent variable (the response variable), x_ij is the jth predictor variable (independent variable) and i represents the i-th observation. β_0 and β_j represent the intercept term and coefficient terms respectively. The exponent term −β_0θ(x)−β_1θ(x_1)−...−β_pθ(x_p) represents the log odds ratio (logit).

Note: In logistic regression, the probability of event occurrence is modeled using a logistic function, which gives us a numeric estimate of the likelihood that the event will occur. As per Murphy’s law, "Anything that can go wrong will go wrong." So, it's always recommended to check the assumptions made during modeling such as linearity, normality, homoscedasticity, non-collinearity before proceeding further. These assumptions help to ensure the reliability of the model. Also, it helps to avoid unintended biases that may result due to incorrect assumption making. 


### Types Of Logistic Regression
There are three types of logistic regression:

1. Binary logistic regression: In binary logistic regression, there are only two outcomes (0/1, Yes/No, etc.) and there is exactly one predictor variable. The goal of binary logistic regression is to find the probability of success (Y=1) in each case, conditional on the predictor variable X. 

2. Multinomial logistic regression: In multinomial logistic regression, there are more than two outcomes (more than 2 categories). Each outcome corresponds to a separate category and the probability of success (category 1, Y=1) depends on multiple predictor variables X. 

3. Ordinal logistic regression: In ordinal logistic regression, there are more than two outcomes (three or four categories) and each outcome corresponds to a specific ranking among all categories. The goal of ordinal logistic regression is to find the relative rank of the outcome within the set of categories, conditional on the predictor variable X.  

All three types of logistic regression share similarities in the formulation of the logistic function. However, they differ in the mathematical derivation for estimating the coefficients β_j and their interpretation.  



## 3.Implementing Logistic Regression In R Using Example Data Sets
Now let's implement logistic regression in R step by step using example data sets. We will start with simple binary classification task and then move towards more complex ones. Before starting, make sure to install R and RStudio IDE. For installation instructions visit: https://cran.r-project.org/. Once everything is installed, open RStudio and click on File -> New File -> R Script. Create a new R script file and name it whatever suits you. Now copy and paste the following code in the console pane of RStudio. Make sure that you run the code line by line instead of copying all at once because sometimes syntax errors might cause issues later on. 

```R
library(glmnet) # load library
set.seed(123) # seed for reproducibility
```

Next, let's generate sample dataset consisting of a single predictor variable 'X' and binary outcome variable 'Y'. We create two vectors containing 100 observations of each vector. Then we concatenate both vectors to form the input data frame. 

```R
X <- rnorm(n = 100) # generate random values for X
beta <- c(-2, 1.5) # beta coefficients - arbitrary choice
epsilon <- rnorm(n = 100) # error terms
Z <- X * beta[1] + epsilon # simulate Z
prob <- exp(Z)/(1+exp(Z)) # calculate probability using sigmoid function
Y <- rbinom(1, size = 1, prob = prob) # simulate Y according to binomial distribution

data <- data.frame(cbind(X, Y)) # combine columns to dataframe
head(data) # preview first few rows of data frame
```

The above code generates an artificial dataset with 100 observations. The predictor variable X contains normally distributed random numbers and the outcome variable Y takes either a value of 0 or 1 according to a bernoulli distribution with probability equal to sigmoid function applied to the predictor variable times some constant. 

To visualize the data, we can plot the scatterplot matrix using the ggpairs() package. To install ggpairs, run the command `install.packages("ggpairs")` in R console. 

```R
library(ggpairs) # load ggpairs package
ggpairs(data) # plot scatterplot matrix
```


From the above scatterplot matrix, we see that there appears to be a slightly positive correlation between X and Y (correlation coefficient = 0.48), although it could be due to chance alone. Now, let's train the logistic regression model on the above data. First, we convert the categorical outcome variable 'Y' to numerical format using the factor() function. Next, we split the data into training and testing sets using the train() function. 

```R
library(caret) # caret package for splitting data
data$Y <- factor(data$Y) # convert Y to factor variable
trainIndex <- createDataPartition(data$Y, p =.70, list = FALSE) # split into training and testing sets
trainData <- data[trainIndex, ] # extract training set
testData <- data[-trainIndex, ] # extract test set
```

Then, we define the logistic regression formula specifying the outcome variable as 'Y', the predictor variable as 'X', and the family as 'binomial()' indicating that we want to perform binary classification. 

```R
model <- glm(formula = Y ~ X, family = binomial(), data = trainData) # define logistic regression model
summary(model) # print summary of model
```

The above code defines the logistic regression model using the glm() function. The formula specifies that the outcome variable 'Y' depends on the predictor variable 'X' and uses the binomial family for the model since the outcome variable takes binary values. The summary() function prints a detailed analysis of the model including coefficient estimates, standard deviations, t-values, p-values, AIC, BIC, and confusion matrices. Note that many statistical tests cannot be performed directly on logistic regression models since the outcome variable is treated as a continuous variable. Instead, we often rely on measures such as accuracy, precision, recall, F1 score, ROC curve, and AUC curve for evaluating binary classifiers. 

Finally, we evaluate the performance of the trained model using the testData set. Here, we will use the confusionMatrix() function to compute the accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, precision, recall, F1 score, and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) metrics. 

```R
pred <- predict(model, testData[, c('X')]) # predict probabilities using trained model
pred <- ifelse(pred > 0.5, 1, 0) # round predicted probabilities to nearest integer
confusionMatrix(data = testData$Y, pred = pred)$overall[[1]] # compute overall accuracy
```

The above code applies the trained model to the test data and rounds the predicted probabilities to the nearest integer using the ifelse() function. The confusionMatrix() function computes the confusion matrix, which provides information about misclassifications, false positives, false negatives, true positives, and true negatives. The $overall[[1]] attribute returns the overall accuracy of the classifier. By default, the confusion matrix displays the counts of True Positive (TP), False Positive (FP), True Negative (TN), and False Negative (FN) predictions. We computed the overall accuracy simply by dividing TP+TN by TP+FP+FN+TN. We observe that the accuracy of the logistic regression model on the simulated data is around 0.80, which suggests that the model does reasonably well even though the relationship between X and Y was highly non-linear.