                 

# 1.背景介绍


Adapted from an actual customer complaint letter:

Dear Seamless,

In case you were wondering what the general population thinks of your company, I am going to take a stab at it. Most people think your company has a terrible product and no customer service at all. I say that because I had an experience with your company last night.

I ordered a Cuban sandwich from a restaurant down the street from my office on 27th street and 3rd avenue. I placed the order using your app on my phone at 12:55 p.m. It said it would take 30 minutes for the food to arrive. At 2:45 p.m. I was still sitting in my office with no food. I called the restaurant at 2:55 p.m. and they said that your company had not picked up the order. In fact, they said your company had never picked up the order. They even had an open ticket with you from last night that your company had never picked up.

I called your company at 3:05 p.m. and spoke to a representative that was very rude and seemed to know absolutely nothing about customer service. In fact, he seemed to know nothing at all. He said your company had placed the order and the restaurant should have picked it up. I told him that the restaurant had an open ticket with your company and it was never picked up.

After a few more minutes of useless banter, he told me that your company was “extremely busy,” and that I should have just gone and picked up the food myself. Of course, that was impossible because I was sitting in my office 30 floors up and not on the street.

I asked to speak to a supervisor. After ten minutes, he told me that the supervisor was on the phone and that he would get her to call me back. I was told she would call me back at 4 p.m. I am writing this at 4:20 p.m. and have not heard from anyone from your company.

In summary, I think your company’s customer service is terrible. This is absolutely unacceptable. I will never use your company again.

Thank you.