
作者：禅与计算机程序设计艺术                    

# 1.简介
         

         Distributed tracing is a fundamental concept in microservices architecture that helps to trace the flow of requests across different services and identify bottlenecks or issues within each service. In this article, we will learn how to use open source tool Jaeger for distributed tracing and understand its basic concepts such as spans, traces, and logs. We'll also see how it can be used effectively in developing cloud-native applications using microservices. 

         # 2.Basic Concepts
         
         ## 2.1 Introduction

         Distributed tracing is a methodology that involves collecting and analyzing data related to the interactions between multiple components of an application system, especially in microservice architectures where communication is done asynchronously via message queues and event driven architectures. Distributed tracing provides visibility into what happens inside a complex distributed system at runtime without being constrained by network latency or other factors that can degrade performance. It is essential for troubleshooting and monitoring purposes, making development easier, improving efficiency, and reducing costs.

         

         The main aim of distributed tracing is to provide insights into the behavior of individual components, such as their inputs, outputs, processing times, and errors. This information is then aggregated into meaningful visualizations and reports that help pinpoint issues and potential causes of slowdowns and failures.


         There are several approaches and tools available for implementing distributed tracing in microservices systems:

         * **Manual Logging:** Developers manually log relevant events during the request/response cycle, which includes details about incoming requests, outgoing responses, any errors encountered, and so on. This approach requires developers to write code to perform logging and format the output according to standard formats.

         * **Distributed Tracking Libraries:** Libraries like Google Dapper or Apache Thrift provide automatic instrumentation of application code that allows developers to record events in predefined ways. These libraries work well in most cases but may not capture all the necessary details needed for detailed analysis.

         * **Centralized Logging Tools:** Log aggregation software like Splunk or Elasticsearch allow teams to collect and analyze structured logs from various sources across different services. However, these solutions do not support microservices architectures where each service has its own lifecycle, dependencies, and configurations.

         

         ## 2.2 OpenTracing and Jaeger

         ### 2.2.1 OpenTracing

         OpenTracing is a vendor-neutral specification for APIs and instrumentation that supports distributed tracing. Its goal is to enable developers to integrate distributed tracing into existing applications regardless of the specific tracing backend they choose to use. 


         To achieve this, OpenTracing defines a common set of operations (Span API) that represent individual units of work performed within a trace, called spans. Spans encapsulate timing, metadata, and associated contextual information, including span IDs, trace IDs, timestamps, process IDs, and baggage items. They can have references to other spans originating from external sources or generated by processes internal to the application. Finally, spans can be recorded either automatically by library instrumentation or manually by the application itself when appropriate.

         

         ### 2.2.2 Jaeger

         Jaeger is a CNCF project that implements the OpenTracing specification. It is designed to provide end-to-end tracing capabilities for modern distributed microservice architectures. It offers powerful analytics features, interactive query interface, and built-in support for popular programming languages and frameworks. Furthermore, it is extensible through plugins that support additional tracing backends and storage mechanisms.

         

         # 3.Jaeger Architecture Overview

         Let's take a look at the overall architecture of Jaeger.




         As shown above, Jaeger consists of three core components:


         * Collector component: Jaeger receives tracing data from clients, such as applications or microservices, over a variety of protocols and encodes them in a compact binary format known as Jaeger Protobuf. The collector accepts, batches, and indexes these spans and stores them durably in the cassandra database.

         * Query component: Jaeger exposes an HTTP API and user interface for querying and analyzing tracing data stored in the Cassandra database. It enables users to visualize traces, search for errors, correlate trace data, and monitor the health of the distributed system.

         * Agent component: A daemon that runs alongside each microservice in the system and captures and sends trace data to the collector. The agent intercepts RPC calls made by the client and adds new spans around the call chain. It works with service discovery components to resolve the identity of the current service and add tags to the reported spans based on configuration files or environment variables.

         

         # 4.Implementation Using Python Flask

       
         Now let's implement distributed tracing using python flask with jaeger. First, we need to install `jaeger_client` package using pip command. Run the following command in your terminal:


        ```
        $ pip install jaeger_client
        ```

        Next, we need to create our Flask app instance and initialize Jaeger tracer object. Add the following lines of code before creating the Flask app instance:


        ```python
        from flask import Flask
        from opentracing_instrumentation.client_hooks import install_all_patches
        from jaeger_client import Config
        import logging
        
        def init_tracer(service):
            logging.getLogger('').handlers = []
            logging.basicConfig(format='%(message)s', level=logging.DEBUG)

            config = Config(
                config={'sampler': {'type': 'const', 'param': 1},
                        'logging': True,
                        },
                service_name=service, validate=True)
            
            return config.initialize_tracer()
            
        app = Flask(__name__)
        
        jaeger_tracer = init_tracer('my-microservice')
        
        install_all_patches()
        ```

        Here, we first define a function named `init_tracer()` that initializes Jaeger tracer using a configuration file (`config`). The `config` dictionary sets sampler type to constant rate and parameter value to 1 (i.e., sample every trace). The `service_name` argument specifies the name of our microservice, which will appear in the trace view. 

        Then we pass the resulting tracer object to the `app` variable and initialize the required patches for Flask integration. The `install_all_patches()` function ensures that tracing headers are propagated throughout the request and response cycles, allowing us to associate child spans with their parent spans.

        Once we've initialized the tracer object and installed the patch, we're ready to start adding tracing functionality to our Flask app!

        By default, the `flask` integration automatically records the URL path, HTTP method, status code, response size, and elapsed time of each request. You can modify the default behavior by passing a custom implementation of the `BeforeRequestHandler` callback to the constructor of the `FlaskTracing` class. For example:



        ```python
        from jaeger_client import Span, Tracer
        from opentracing import Format

        class CustomTracer(Tracer):
           ...

        class MyMicroservice(object):
            def __init__(self, app):
                
                self._app = app

                # Initialize Jaeger Tracer
                config = Config(
                    config={
                       'sampler': {
                            'type': 'const',
                            'param': 1,
                        },
                        'logging': False,
                        'local_agent': None,
                    },
                    service_name='my-microservice'
                )
                
                self._tracer = config.initialize_tracer()
                
                # Set up tracing middleware
                from flask_opentracing import FlaskTracing
                self._tracing = FlaskTracing(self._tracer, True, app)
                
            def run(self):
                self._app.run(port=5000)
                
            
        if __name__ == '__main__':
            my_microservice = MyMicroservice(app)
            my_microservice.run()
        ```
        
        In this modified version of the initialization logic, we replace the `Config` object with a custom subclass that overrides the `Tracer` base class to inject custom logic to handle spanning of certain types of requests (e.g., `/healthcheck`, `/metrics`) separately. We also disable Jaeger's local agent feature since Docker containers already offer container-local networking capabilities.
        
        Finally, we instantiate an instance of `MyMicroservice` and invoke its `run()` method to start the Flask web server. When a request arrives, Jaeger's auto-instrumentation code detects the active span and generates a new child span for handling the request. Note that while the `/healthcheck` and `/metrics` paths are exempted from tracing by default, you could modify the `_tracing` instance to include them in the tracing decision process.