
作者：禅与计算机程序设计艺术                    

# 1.简介
  

Hierarchical clustering is a popular method for organizing objects into a tree-like structure based on their proximity or similarity. It divides the data into several clusters of similar objects and arranges them in a hierarchy. The root node represents the entire dataset, while each child node represents one cluster that was formed by merging two original clusters. The process continues recursively until all data points are members of individual clusters at the bottom level. Common applications of hierarchical clustering include market segmentation, customer classification, and exploratory data analysis (EDA). 

In this article we will explore how to perform hierarchical clustering using python's scikit learn library. We will be working with an iris dataset which has four features representing different measurements of three types of irises (Setosa, Versicolour, Virginica) as well as corresponding labels. Let's begin! 

# 2.基础知识背景
Before proceeding further let's have some basic knowledge about hierarchical clustering algorithm and terminologies used in it:

1. Distance Metrics - A distance metric measures the difference between two objects. In order to apply hierarchical clustering, we need to specify a distance metric that defines how far apart the objects should be placed so that they can form separate clusters. 

2. Dendogram - A dendrogram is a diagrammatic representation of the hierarchical clustering generated by the algorithm. Each leaf node of the tree corresponds to a data point, and branches represent the cutting points along the height axis. The length of each branch shows the distance between its children nodes.

3. Linkage Criteria - There are several linkage criteria available for hierarchical clustering. These criterias determine how closely related pairs of clusters are merged together during the agglomerative process. The most commonly used criteria are single-linkage, complete-linkage, average-linkage, and centroid-linkage. Single-linkage merges two clusters if the pair of objects whose distances are smallest is selected; complete-linkage selects the pair with maximum distance; average-linkage takes the average of the two clusters' distances; and centroid-linkage uses the coordinates of the cluster centers to measure distance.

4. Agglomerative Approach - The agglomerative approach involves iteratively merging groups of clusters based on the specified linkage criterion until all data points are assigned to individual clusters at the bottom level. This means that there are no overlaps among any cluster of the resulting dendrogram.

Now that we have a general idea about hierarchical clustering, let’s move forward with our code implementation. 

# 3. Code Implementation
We will use scikit learn library for implementing hierarchical clustering algorithm. We will start by importing necessary libraries and loading the iris dataset from sklearn datasets module. 

```python
import numpy as np 
from scipy.cluster.hierarchy import dendrogram, linkage  
from matplotlib import pyplot as plt  
from sklearn.datasets import load_iris 

# Load Iris Dataset
iris = load_iris()

data = iris.data
labels = iris.target
print("Data shape:", data.shape)
```

Output: Data shape: (150, 4)

Next, we will perform hierarchical clustering using ward linkage technique. Ward linkage is a variance minimization method that generates a hierarchy of clusters using the Euclidean distance between each object and the cluster center. The final step would be to plot a dendogram to visualize the resultant clustering. Here is the code for performing hierarchical clustering and plotting dendogram.

```python
# Perform Hierarchical Clustering
Z = linkage(data, 'ward')  

# Plot Dendogram
plt.figure(figsize=(25, 10))  
  
dendrogram(
    Z, 
    labels=labels,      # Label clusters with species names
    color_threshold=np.inf,     # Show full tree
    leaf_rotation=90.,    # Orient leaf nodes vertically
    leaf_font_size=8.,    # Font size for leaf nodes
    orientation='left',   # Orient top to bottom
    )  

plt.show()
```

The output will look like:


From the above image, we can see that the clustering is generating three clear clusters of Setosa, Versicolor and Virginica flowers.

Finally, we can compare the accuracy of various linkage techniques using the following code snippet:

```python
methods = ['single','complete','average']

for m in methods:
  print('Method:',m,'\n----------')
  Z = linkage(data, method=m)  
  
  plt.figure(figsize=(25, 10))  

  dendrogram(
      Z, 
      labels=labels,      # Label clusters with species names
      color_threshold=np.inf,     # Show full tree
      leaf_rotation=90.,    # Orient leaf nodes vertically
      leaf_font_size=8.,    # Font size for leaf nodes
      orientation='left',   # Orient top to bottom
      )  

  plt.title(m+' linkage clustering')  
  plt.xlabel('Index of Sample')  
  plt.ylabel('Distance')  
  plt.show()
```

This will produce plots for all three linkage techniques and allow us to choose the best one based on our preferences.